What properties, abilities, and upgrades are available for ships?

# Ships

 * capacity - used for cargo, fuel, and passengers
 * upgrade capacity - space taken up by any type of upgrade

Every upgrade costs some amount of upgrade capacity.


## Attributes of a ship
 
 * Capacity (goods)
  * base capacity
  * max capacity
  * current capacity
 * Fuel
  * max
  * current
 * Upgrade capacity
 
## Upgrades

Current ship upgrades:

 - Expanded Cargo (ShipUpgrade::target == "cargo")
 - Expanded Range (ShipUpgrade::target == "range")

The factors that go into determining available upgrades and their cost and
impact:

 * *Upgrade Quality* - the quality of an upgrade effects two things; the size of the upgrade,
and the cost of the upgrade.
 * *Upgrade Size* - what additional size/change does this upgrade offer
 * *Base Cost* - what is the base cost for this upgrade?
 * *Rarity* - how often does this upgrade occur?
 
### Base Cost

*Expanded Cargo*:

 - +10 *size*, -10 *upgrade capacity*, 짜5,000 *base cost*
 - +25 *size*, -25 *upgrade capacity*, 짜12,000 *base cost*
 - +50 *size*, -50 *upgrade capacity*, 짜22,000 *base cost*
 - +100 *size*, -100 *upgrade capacity*, 짜40,000 *base cost*

### Rarity

Rarity is a factor up *upgrade quality*, and is expressed as a percentage
chance that the part of such quality is available at a shipyard.

 - Basic, 100% *availability*
 - Alpha, 75% *availability*
 - Beta, 50% *availability*
 - Delta, 10% *availability*
 - Omega, 3% *availability*
 - Ancient, 1% *availability*
 - Grorian, 0.1% *availability*

### Upgrade Quality

The general trend through the upgrades is that every step up the chain multiples
the effected size by an increment of 1, and the price by 10:

 - Basic, 1x *size*, 1x *base cost*
 - Alpha, 2x *size*, 10x *base cost*
 - Beta, 4x *size*, 100x *base cost*
 - Delta, 8x *size*, 1,000x *base cost*
 - Omega, 16x *size*, 10,000x *base cost*
 - Ancient, 64x *size*, 100,000x *base cost*
 - Grorian, 256x *size*, 1,000,000x *base cost*
 

### Expanded Cargo

Modify Ship::cargo_capacity

### Expanded Range (not yet available)

Modify Ship::max_range
 
 
 
 
### Possible future upgrades:

Base ship upgrades

 * Extended capacity
 * Extended electronics

 * Engines (costs capacity and electronics)
 * passenger space
  * based on passenger grade
  * takes capacity
 * cargo space
 * specialized cargo space
  
## Ship model

*ShipUpgrade*:

  - target: what does this effect on the ship
  - size: how much does if effect the ship
  - ship: which ship does it effect
  - cost: how much does this upgrade cost?
  - name: what is this upgrade called?
  - quality: what is the quality of this upgrade (see upgrade_quality.json)
  - space: how much upgrade space does this consume?

*Ship*:

  - cargo_capacity
  - upgrade_capacity: how much of the ships upgrade capacity has been used?
  - upgrade_capacity: what is the total upgrade capacity of this ship?

## Generating Ships

When generating ships, we use combinations of *Range*, *Cargo Capacity*, and *Upgrade Capacity*
to create unique ship types. The combination of *R* ange, *C* argo capacity, and *U* pgrade
capacity are used to calculate the cost of a ship. Each of the three attributes can
be generated from a possible range of sizes:

 - *n* - None, **0** size, **0** price factor
 - *s* - Small, **50** size, **1** price factor
 - *m* - Medium, **100** size, **2** price factor
 - *l* - Large, **250** size, **4** price factor
 - *xl* - Extra Large, **500** size, **6** price factor
 - *xxl* - Extra Extra Large, **1,000** size, **8** price factor
 
For the *R* ange attribute, the size is multiplied by 5. 
 
The combined price factors are tallied up, and used in the formula `cost = (2^price factor) * 250` to
determine the final cost of the ship. So a ship defined as:

```javascript
{
  "name": "Resupplier",
  "description": "",
  "range": ["m", "l", "xl", "xxl"],
  "cargo": ["l", "xl", "xxl"],
  "upgrade": ["m", "l"],
  "availability": 0.4
}
```

Could be generated by choosing random *R*, *C*, and *U* values from the listed possible
attributes. Therefor a Ship generated with `R = L`, `C = XXL`, and `U = M` would cost
`( 2^(4 + 8 + 2) ) * 250` or `4,096,000` units. The ship would have a *R* ange of `1250`, a
*C* argo of `1,000`, and an *U* pgrade capacity of `100`. 

# Shipyards

Ship yards have bare ships and available upgrades.

